# bitkJS

## bitkJS protein sequence headers

The goal of `bitkHeaders` is to standardize protein sequence headers to work with fasta and newick files, bitkJS tools and some of the biowonks parafernalia as well. At the same time, `bitkheaders` aim to give humans a readable hint about what that sequence is about.

bitkJS is highly integrated with MiST3 database. For that we designed a specific, simple, header.

<central>`Xx_yyy|genenomeVersion-locus`</central>

Where `Xx` is the first two letters of the genus name and and `yyy` is the three first letters of the species name of the genome. This is only needed as a human readable information. After working with a set of organisms is easy to get familiar with it.

`genomeVersion` is the NCBI unique accession code for the genome and `locus` is the locus number of the gene.

After that, it is up to the user to add more information if needed by using `|` to separate the information in the tag.

### legacy standards

Some fasta files were generated by the python version of bitk and used to communicate with MiST2, for that, it has determined to be version 1. Here is the standard:

<central>`Xx.yyy.NNN-locus-accession`<central>

`Xx.yyy` is the same as in the current version but `NNN` used to be the genome identifier in MiST2. `locus` is the old NCBI locus number and `accession` is the old NCBI accession number of the gene.

Also in transition to bitkJS we also had a in-between standard now named version 2 with the following standard:

<central>`Xx_yyy_NNN|locus|accession`<central>

### Conversion between standards (TODO)

bitkJS has a tool called: `bitkJS.bitkOldTobitk3` that will convert from version 1 or 2 to version 3. Note that to be able to convert to version 3, more information is needed and there will be an active on going search for this info in MiST3 database.